Case Study Example 

Our client has a warehouse department of approximately 15 men at a Texas location. Most of their work involves driving forklifts to load and unload trucks. The warehouse workers rarely interact with other employees because of the way the facility is laid out. 

A female employee bids into the warehouse and gets the job. She is immediately subjected to continuous harassment from coworkers, including dirty jokes and sexually explicit language. The males will usually help each other, but they will not help her. 

The company has not done any harassment training for its employees in this department in at least 2-3 years. Of course, there are policies about harassment and physical contact but has been inconsistent in enforcement. 

The female employee tolerates the behavior at first, but when things don’t improve, she complains to the warehouse supervisor. He tells her that she needs a “thicker skin.”  

The supervisor tells the male employees the female has complained about them, but he does not discipline them. The verbal abuse and poor treatment continue until one day a male employee pinches her and, frustrated, she punches him.   

Recently, a second female has bid for a warehouse position and is waiting to be moved into the job. 

HR has been discussing this situation with Operations leadership as it has developed, but Operations responds by saying, “This is why we never hired women for this job.” 

 

Questions to answer 

    How would you manage the physical altercation, which violated company policy against physical contact? 

    How would you respond to the behavior of the warehouse supervisor? 

    How would you respond to the Operations leadership? 

 

The answers:  

    How would you manage the physical altercation, which violated company policy against physical contact? 

Investigate it and apply the policy that is on the books. Investigate the instigating action as a possible case of harassment and determine what further action can be taken, based on the company’s lack of consistent response. 

    How would you respond to the behavior of the warehouse supervisor? 

Coach the supervisor on identifying harassment in the workplace and the proper response to harassing behavior.  (this must include reporting to HR) Correct the supervisor’s behavior in discussing the female employee’s complaint with the males in the department.  Implement unit training on this issue as quickly as possible. 

    How would you respond to the Operations leadership? 

Explain the ethical issues involved in this behavior, the legal risks it poses for the company, and the economic risks it poses in terms of attracting and retaining quality employees and damage to the company’s brand. 
